So in the last couple of lectures we created a plugin.
And we did this by manually creating a folder in the plugins folder in wp-contents. And then we came
in the Plugins page in wp-admin and activated our plugin. But now we have a problem that when
you bundle your theme for production, for users. And then users will activate your theme but that won't automatically
activate the plugins.
So we included a plugins folder inside our theme that will contain the metaboxes plugin and any other
plugins that we will create throughout the course. So you can instruct your theme users
and you know, tell them to activate these plugins, go to plugins and add new and then upload this zip
folder. But there is a much better way to do that.
And this actually required if you are developing for Theme Forest.
So what we will do is that we will integrate some third party library.
And what this library will do is it will allow us to create some list of plugins that are required
by the theme. And if these plugins are not installed it will display a message here that will say "These
plugins are not installed and they are required by your theme.
Do you want to install them now?".
And if you click yes it will take you to a page where you can have a list of all the plugins that we
as a theme developer will define. And you can click activate and the this third party library will go to the
plugins folder and activate your theme. And the theme user will not have to do this step by himself.
So this library is called "TGM Plug Activation".
So let's go to their website and download it.  So let's choose Theme here. And this is pretty cool you can choose if
you are distributing this theme for WordPress.org or Theme Forest.
So let's choose Theme Forest and let's choose a Text Domain.
So in our case our text domain is "_themename". And don't worry we will include this library inside of our
theme so the "_themename" will be replaced when we build.
It also takes a Function Prefix which will be the same in our case. And it also takes a Name and let's make
this also "_themename" so it will be replaced with our theme name when we build our files.
So let's generate.
And it downloaded a zip folder.
So I'm donna copy this from the download folder and paste here.
So here it is.
And let's open it
And it will contain some files but the file that we need is class-tgm-plugin-activation.php.
So let's copy that.
And then let's paste it inside maybe in the lib folder.
And let's also copy this example and put it here.
You won't use it actually but we need to take a look at it.
So we go to our code editor. And we now have this file here.
And as you can see we'll find "_themename" here in some places but we don't have to actually edit anything
in this file.
We will just include it in our functions.php.
So let's do that or let's actually create a new file in the lib.
Let's call it include-plugins.php. And then in functions.php let's include this file.
And then inside include-plugins
let's open PHP and include the TGM Plugin Activation class.
So let's use maybe require_once and the path will be theme directory
and then "/lib/"
and let's copy its name.
It's too long.
So now that we have this class included we can now use it.
So how to use it is included in the example here.
So you can take a look at this. And they have examples for how to require a plugin that is bundled with
your theme. And that's what we will do.
And they also have examples on how to require plugin from the WordPress repository and or a plugin
in a remote server and stuff like that.
So you can read this but in our case we'll need to require a plugin that is bundled inside of our theme,
in the plugins folder.
So to do that let's add_action(). And the action's called "tgmpa_register".
So this action is called somewhere in this
class. And let's define a new function "_themename_register
_required_plugins".
And let's create this function now.
So we need to define an array of plugins, array of required plugins.
Right?
And an array of configuration for the TGM Plugin Activation class.
And then we call a function called tgmpa(). And it takes the $plugins
and the $config.
And that's it.
We now have to fill these arrays. So let's go to the example again.
And here we have all the possible configurations in the config array.
So you can read about those here its commented and everything is explained. So you have the ID for example
and stuff like that.
So if you want to override any of these you can put it here but in our case we won't need to override
any of these.
So let's just use the defaults and let's just define the array of plugins. So each plugin we'll add will be also an array.
And this array will contain information about this particular plugin.
So the "name", let's use our placeholder "_themename metaboxes".
And it needs a "slug".
The slug is usually the theme's folder name and we called it "_themename-metaboxes".
And the "source". And source is where your plugin is located inside your theme.
Right?
So it's in the get_template_directory_uri().
And then we created a folder inside the lib folder called plugins and it's called firsttheme
firsttheme-metaboxes.zip. But let's use also the "_themename" placeholder here. So that if we use this plugin
in another theme, it will still work without having to replace anything here.
It also takes a "required" boolean. And in our case we need this plugin to be required.
And a "version".
And our version is we defined here.
1.0.0.
And this is important.
It's called "force_activation" and this will force your plugin to be installed.
What actually Theme Forest will reject your theme if you set this to "true".
So always set this to "false". You should never force a user to activate a certain plugin.
And there's also "force_deactivation".
So let's duplicate and "deactivation" and you should also set this to "false".
So let's save now and see what this will do.
So let's go to wp-admin and we have an error.
And the require_once, it needs an absolute path in the server.
So let's remove the URI and let's refresh.
So we have another error in line 24. So let's call this $plugins because we call that $plugins here. Sorry for that.
Let's refresh now.
And let's go to Plugins.
And let's deactivate this plugin.
And as you can see now we have a message "The following required plugin is inactive:
_themename metaboxes".
So "Begin activating plugin" and let's activate it.
And now it's activated without us having to upload the plugin manually or anything.
So we've now activated the "_themename _pluginname" plugin in which we use for development.
But when we build our theme it will actually go and get this folder and activate the build plugin.
So why don't we go now and build our theme for development and make sure that everything is working fine
and plugins are included correctly.
So I have a, I'm gonna open a new Finder
in htdocs. And I installed a new WordPress installation a blank one called WordPress.
So if you go to themes now you'll find the default themes.
So let's go to this new installation.
It's in localhost:8888 and then wordress and wp-admin. And let's now build our theme.
So inside the theme directory I'm gonna run "npm run bundle".
So now inside the packaged we should have firsttheme and this should be the file that we just bundled.
So let's go now here and Add New Theme.
And Uploads and then go to our file which is this one and try activate it.
So great, it is activated and it's now asking for the firsttheme metaboxes plugin.
So let's "Begin installing" and let's "Install". And then it will display this error.
So I've done some debugging on this and I've reached a solution.
So let's go to the gulp file in our theme and not in our plugin.
And when we compress our files for some reason when we run the "replace" task,
you know the "replace" task  will be run on each file and replace "_themename" with "info.name".
But apparently when this file is a zip file it gets corrupted by this "replace" task. So let's write
an if conditions here that will only run the "replace" task if this file is not a zip file.
So what happens basically is when we were having all the files in
our theme here. And we're having our plugin in the lib/plugins folder.
So when this firsttheme-metaboxes.zip file when it passes through this "replace" task, gets
corrupted and in our built theme it's saved as a corrupted file.
And that's why we get this message here.
So let's try this if condition now. So "gulpif"
and "gulpif" can take a boolean but can also take a function.
And what's great about this is that this function gets past the file object.
And this is the current file that is currently being replaced.
So we need to see if this file ends with a ".zip" and if so we will return "false".
Otherwise we will return "true". And whatever we are returned from this function
it will be the argument of the "gulpif". So to get the extension of the file, we can write an if condition.
"if (file.relative.split('.'))"
So file.relative will get the name of the file and the split on the "." will convert it to an array.
And this array will contain the name and then the extension. And the last item in the array will be the extension.
So we can use the pop() to get the last item. And if this is not equal to "zip", if it's not a zip file, we
will return "true". Otherwise you can return "false". But since
this is an arrow function, we can skip the return. And you can remove the if condition.
And this .
And whatever will be returned from this condition,
whatever will be returned from this
it will be returned in the function.
So if not zip that will return "true" and that's what this function will return.
And this will be the argument of the "gulpif".
So let's save now. And if this was confusing to you make sure you read more about arrow functions.
So let's now try and bundle the theme again.
We've an error. I think we've an extra bracket here.
And a bracket missing here. So let's try run this.
And let's go now to
the WordPress installation and the themes. And let's delete this one and activate, install the theme again.
Also when you delete the theme make sure you are in the blank installation. Please don't remove the original
theme that you are developing.
So let's upload the theme.
And let's activate.
And install the plugin.
And then the error is gone but we now have another error.
So it says that our plugin consists of more than one file, but the files are not packaged in a folder.
So I also did some debugging on this and this is probably a bug in the TGM Plugin Activation class.
But to solve this let's go to the gulpfile in the plugin and not the gulpfile in the theme. And in the "compress"
task let's add an option here called "base".
And it takes a relative path to the parent.
So what we need to do now is we need to go to the plugin in the command line, the plugin in the theme
and this the plugin again.
And let's remove the theme in the WordPress installation in a new installation the blank one. And then let's
go to our plugin in htdocs and myfirsttheme, wp-content, themes. Oh sorry plugins.
So this is the new packaged one with the "base" option.
And we will replace this with the one in the plugins folder in the theme folder.
So I'm sorry I know this might be a bit confusing.
So now we replaced the plugin that is bundled in our theme.
So let's build our theme again.
So inside the theme directory in the command line let's run a bundle and then go to the package folder.
Now we have the new file.
So let's try now.
And we deleted the old theme in the blank.
WordPress installation,
this one. So let's try now and add the theme again.
And activate.
And install the plugin and hopefully this time. And successfully installed.
So let's now edit a post. Oh sorry.
Sorry we actually installed the plugin but we did not activate it.
So we also get the message here that the plugin is installed but not activated.
So let's activate it. And let's edit post. And we have all our boxes here.
So that was a lot of work and I actually spent a lot of time debugging the problems that you saw here.
But when you create other plugins in the future you won't take as much time
hopefully. If this lecture is a bit confusing to you I really recommend that you rewatch it again.
And I think it will make things more clear. So let's do
one final improvement. So as you can see every time we bundle our theme, we will have to go to our plugin
or in the future it will be our plugins, we'll create other plugins. And then go to the package folder
and take the theme our already bundled plugin. And then put it in the
lib folder and plugins and paste it here.
And every time we update the plugin we'll have to do the same.
So why don't we in the gulpfile in the theme,
Ok, not in the plugin, add a new task here in the
when you are building the theme that will automatically go to the plugins folder and gets the zip file
and put it in the plugins folder in the theme.
So in other words it will go to wp-content/plugins/_themename-metaboxes/packaged and
get this file and put it here in the lib/plugins. And this will be in the same "bundle" task that
bundles the theme.
So this will be a great improvement.
Let's do this in the next lecture.